# Mastermind Lite

Thank you for selecting my version of Mastermind Lite for all of your entertainment needs.  Mastermind Lite is playable in modern browsers and was created using JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.

For a history of the game, please visit [wikipedia]{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mastermind_(board_game)}.

There are some distinct differences between the original Mastermind and Mastermind Lite:

Original Mastermind was created as a two player game.  Players score points only when they are in the role of the codemaker.  Since the role of codemaker is filled by the computer in Mastermind Lite, another schema is necessary:

There are no points in Mastermind Lite.  Rather, the player (the codebreaker) has ten possible turns to guess the code generated by the comdemaker.  If the code is guessed in ten turns or less, the player wins.  If the player does not guess the code in ten turns, the player loses.

Mastermind Lite does not keep track of rounds won, and there are no accumulated credits or totals from one playthrough to the next.  Mastermind Lite is designed to be a quick playing experience while providing an enjoyable challenge for the player.

## Concept:

At the launch of the game, the computer will automatically generate and hide a code of four colored squares for the player to guess.  The code can comprise any combination of the playable colors (multiple instances of the same color included).  The computer cannot have a blank or null as one of its color choices.

The goal of the game is for the code breaker (player) to guess the code generated by the code maker (computer) by placing colored squares in the same position as the code breaker's code.

## Instructions:

1. The player selects a color for each playable square by clicking repeatedly to toggle through all available color selections.  After selecting a color in each square, the player then clicks the "guess" button to submit their guess for evaluation by the reporting function and advance to the next turn.  The "guess" button will not activate until the player selects a color for every playable square for the current turn.

    > The playable colors are:  firebrick, deepskyblue, olivedrab, gold, dimgrey, and lightpink.

2) Once the player clicks the "guess" button, the game will automatically display an empty row for the next turn, advance the row for the prior turn down the board, and provide a report for the accuracy of the guesses in the prior turn.  The report will appear to the left of the prior turns' row in a matrix of four possible dots.

The dots have the following meanings:

Orange: The player selected a color that appears somewhere in the codemakers code, but it is located in an incorrect position
White: The palyer selected a color that appears

## Credits